17 countries including the United States
have released a joint statement calling
on Israel and Hamas to do whatever is
necessary to agree on a ceasefire deal
they also want the captives being held
in Gaza to be freed let's get the
reaction from the United States now Alan
Fischer joins us from Washington what
else did this statement have to say
Alan well this coming from Joe Biden who
of course is in France for the 80th
anniversary of the dday commemorations
but he's teamed up with the 6 SE other
countries who say they have captives
currently being held in Gaza to release
this statement it says As Leaders of the
country's deeply concerned for the
hostages held by Hamas in Gaza including
many of uran citizens we fully support
the movement towards a ceire and hostage
release deal now on the table and is
outlined by President Biden there is no
time to lose we call on Hamas to close
this agreement that Israel is ready to
move forward with and begin the process
of releasing our citizens now the
statement which is only two paragraphs
long continues we note that this
agreement would lead to an immediate
ceas fire and Rehabilitation of Gaza
together with security assurances for
Israelis and Palestinians and
opportunities for a more enduring
long-term peace and a two-state solution
opportunities not committing to a St
two-state solution at that point at this
decisive moment we call on the leaders
of Israel as well as Hamas to make
whatever final comp compromises are
necessary to close this deal now
remember we were told that this was an
Israeli plan but here is a statement
saying they have to make compromises to
close the deal and bring relief to the
families of our hostages as well as
those on both sides of this terrible
conflict including the civilian
population it is time for the war to end
and this deal according to this
statement is the necessary starting
point what's the thinking behind all of
these countries coming together in this
way to issue this statement Alan what
are they hoping to
achieve well this is clearly part of the
White House's pressure game Joe Biden
announced this statement there was some
speculation that he did this without
fully getting the Israelis signed on to
this and certainly Benjamin Netanyahu
has made some interesting comments which
suggest that this may have been a a bit
of a surprise to him and certainly he's
aware that far-right members of his
coalition government have threatened to
collapse it if in any way Benjamin
Netanyahu signs up to this so that's why
there's that important comment about how
Israeli leaders need to make compromises
as well but the White House is putting
pressure on Hamas as far as they're
concerned they already have Israel
signed up in all but the letters on the
dotted line and they really want to put
pressure on Hamas this isn't terribly
new because you'll remember that about a
month ago there was a peace deal that
was floating and Hamas accepted that we
were told that all the pressure was on
Hamas to accept it by the White House
and Hamas said yep we sign up to this
and of course it was Israel that hadn't
signed on so you can see it's almost
like trying to force two bits together
like two magnets but they can't quite
get them joined and so this is part of
the White House pressure campaign to get
both sides to sign on to a ceasefire and
then look to a longer term peace deal
all right thank you very much with the
latest from Washington on this story
Alan Fischer well let's get the Israeli
response then because the government
there has banned alaz from reporting
inside the country Imran Khan joins us
from the Jordanian Capital Aman have we
heard anything from the
Israelis uh we haven't heard anything
from the Israelis we're unlikely to hear
anything from the Israelis anytime soon
there's a lot of very strong language as
my colleague Alan Fisher was just
pointing out there particularly when it
comes to the two-state solution remember
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
publicly said time and time again over
his entire career that he's very proud
that he hasn't had uh he hasn't
developed uh negotiations for a
Palestinian state in fact his exact
quote is I'm very proud there hasn't
been a Palestinian State on my watch so
they're likely the Israelis will be
likely looking at this language and
understanding this yes it's coming from
a pressure campaign
by the us but how much can they
withstand that pressure that's probably
uh the question they're asking
themselves but there is reaction from
others not directly to the statement but
about the ceasefire talks we've been
hearing from Egyptian security sources
talking to the Reuters news agency they
say the talks are ongoing but neither
side is getting anywhere close to an
agreement they also say that uh the
Qatari and Egyptian mediators have met
separately with Hamas and with us
officials but they can't seem to get any
agreement uh there's also a statement
from a senior Hamas leader Samy Abu
zorri uh who says whilst they welcome uh
Biden's ideas the US draft resolution at
the UN Security Council was dependent on
an Israeli ceasefire proposal that Hamas
had already seen and rejected the US
document has no mention of ending the
aggression he said uh the Israeli
documents speak of an open-ended
negotiation with no deadline during
which the occupation regains its
hostages and resumes its War we've told
the mediators that this paper wasn't
acceptable to us so significant
significant gaps uh in both sides Hamas
rejecting this outright but now saying
they are wanting to look at it but they
want deadlines they want clearcut
deadlines and so far this proposal
that's being discussed it's being pushed
by the US doesn't have
thank you very much Imran Khan reporting
to us there from Jordan uh the capital
of Jordan Aman and just to reminder
that's because Benjamin netanyahu's
cabinet has banned Al jazer from
reporting inside
Israel make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler